.\" Man page for supersonic. Keep the option list in sync with the --help text
.\" in src/native/Main.cpp — that text is the source of truth.
.TH SUPERSONIC 1 "July 2026" "supersonic" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
supersonic \- low-latency scsynth-compatible audio synthesis server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B supersonic
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B supersonic
is a port of SuperCollider's scsynth audio engine focused on low latency and
long-session reliability. It accepts scsynth command-line flags and the
scsynth OSC command set, so SuperCollider clients (such as Sonic Pi) can
launch and drive it as a drop-in replacement for
.BR scsynth (1).
.PP
Commands arrive as OSC over UDP by default; alternative command transports
(TCP, Unix sockets, shared memory) can be selected with the transport options
below. Ableton Link session sync (including Link Audio streaming), MIDI I/O,
game controller input, and OSC cue networking are built in.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-u " port"
UDP port (default: 57110). Also numbers the server's shared-memory segment;
.B \-u 0
disables shared memory.
.TP
.BI \-S " rate"
Sample rate (default: 48000).
.TP
.BI \-Z " size"
Hardware buffer size (default: auto).
.TP
.BI \-z " size"
scsynth control block size, 32\-1024 (default: 128).
.TP
.BI \-i " num"
Input channels (default: device max; 0 = disable).
.TP
.BI \-o " num"
Output channels (default: device max).
.TP
.BI \-n " num"
Maximum nodes (default: 1024).
.TP
.BI \-b " num"
Sample buffers (default: 1024).
.TP
.BI \-a " num"
Audio bus channels (default: 1024).
.TP
.BI \-c " num"
Control bus channels (default: 16384).
.TP
.BI \-m " size"
Real-time memory in KB (default: 8192).
.TP
.BI \-w " num"
Maximum wire buffers (default: 64).
.TP
.BI \-B " addr"
Bind address (default: all interfaces).
.TP
.BI \-H " words"
Audio device (fuzzy match on \[dq]Driver : Device\[dq]).
.TP
.B \-v
Print version and exit.
.TP
.BI \-\-default\-bpm " n"
Opening session tempo (default: 120).
.TP
.BI \-\-piano\-wavetable " path"
MdaPiano sample table (raw int16).
.TP
.B \-\-list\-devices
List audio devices and exit.
.SS Command transports
Pick at most one; it replaces the UDP command port. The cue server and
outbound OSC are unaffected, and
.B \-u
still numbers the server's shared-memory segment.
.TP
.BI \-\-tcp " port"
TCP, length-prefixed OSC (respects
.BR \-B ).
.TP
.BI \-\-uds " path"
Unix socket, stream (file mode 0600).
.TP
.BI \-\-uds\-dgram " path"
Unix socket, datagram (file mode 0600).
.TP
.B \-\-shm\-commands
Shared-memory segment's peer command plane for one trusted co-located peer
(requires \-u > 0).
.TP
.BI \-\-max\-connections " n"
Stream connection cap (default: 4).
.SS Headless operation
.TP
.B \-\-headless
No audio device; timer-driven render (CI/tests).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR scsynth (1),
.BR jackd (1)
.PP
Project home:
.UR https://github.com/samaaron/supersonic
.UE
.SH AUTHOR
Sam Aaron
